Today's printed comments consider how Satan has blurred people's view of Jehovah.
Satan has blurred their view or blinded people by means of apostate teachings.
And by seeing to it that God's name has been removed from many copies of the Bible.
For this morning's discussion, we want to consider a related concern.
And that is, what current and future events in Satan's world could blur our view of God's kingdom
if we're not careful.
With each point, we'll tie in the principle found in these words in Jeremiah chapter 10 and verse 23 where it says,
I well know, O Jehovah, that man's way does not belong to him.
It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step.
With this in mind, we're going to look at how widespread protests, political promises, and claims of peace and security could distort our view of God's kingdom if we're not careful.
First, widespread protests.
When protests sweep through any country, there's often someone leading the way with a very loud or persuasive voice, true?
And their message usually touches on something that many see as an injustice.
Whether the protest involves dozens, hundreds or thousands of people, most of the protesters are followers, and they repeat a message or slogan.
The problem is that the solutions they seek are human solutions.
Recall Jeremiah's words, it does not belong to man, even to direct his step.
What danger do such protests pose for true Christians?
The danger is this, if we get caught up in the spirit of popular protests, even slightly supporting a cause, even silently within our heart,
we could find our view of God's kingdom growing dim, what in turn could that lead to?
Well, when people in the world lack clear direction or hope, their hearts often start to be filled with anger and rage.
A servant of God can feel such things, too, if he or she loses sight of the kingdom.
Consider for a moment what happened to those who followed after King David's son, Absalom.
The Bible explains that Absalom objected to his father's rulership, but he did more than that.
Through cunning words and actions, he gathered a following.
You can read about what he did at 2 Samuel chapter 15 and verses 2 through 6.
He promised the people justice, and verse 6 says that Absalom kept stealing the hearts of the men of Israel.
In other words, the people got caught up in his message.
Eventually, those who joined him turned violent, and the outcome was disastrous.
Yes, even the hearts of those who worship Jehovah can be stolen or captured, or as today's text says, let us stray, for a misguided or bad purpose.
So that is the danger, and we can be certain that Satan knows it.
There's no question that Satan is right now using various messages of protest to direct people away from the real solution, God's kingdom.
And Satan will cast his net wide to try to capture some of Jehovah's people if possible.
To avoid that and remain focused on the kingdom, we must not forget what Isaiah 42 and verse 1 promises about Jesus.
There it foretells that he will bring justice to the nations. He will, not humans.
As King of God's kingdom, Jesus is the one who will bring what sinful humans can never bring real justice for people.
A second thing that can blur our view of the kingdom if we're not careful is political promises.
Is there no end to the false promises that people will make when they want power?
And even when politicians try to fulfill some of their promises, they often fall short on the wisdom and the resources to do it effectively.
Political powers can only provide short-term human solutions at best.
They often cave in to popular and immoral thinking.
Their thoughts are so distorted that they have difficulty seeing right from wrong.
They face long-term problems, including social unrest, that they cannot permanently solve and no amount of money can fix it for them.
Again, we recall Jeremiah's words, it does not belong to man, even to direct his step.
When the rulers of ancient Rome tried to put down social unrest, they gave many things to the people for free.
Food, entertainment, and many services were free or very cheap.
They called it bread and circuses.
See, that was their formula to appease the people and gain their allegiance.
But like the governments of today, that man-made empire was in gradual decline.
And the humans in charge had no long-term answers, only short-term offerings.
Now, it's likely that the early Christians in Rome and elsewhere benefited from some of the things that the empire provided.
Food, water, good roads, and so forth.
Still, those early Christians needed to remain focused on the Lord and on his promised kingdom.
Otherwise, their view of things could have become distorted.
And they might have been pulled into compromising their faith by giving undue glory to the empire.
How short-sighted that would have been.
That empire in Rome would have eventually turned against those Christians.
Today, we too may benefit from some of the things that the nations are doing.
But like the early Christians, we must never allow the kingdom to become out of focus in our minds and hearts.
What will help us to do this?
We're helped when we remember that Jehovah and his son are in charge of man's future.
The solutions they offer are permanent.
The promises they have made will be fulfilled.
If we keep that focus, then when this man-made system turns against God's people, it will have no hold on us.
As God's Word directs, we submit to man's rulership where it does not conflict with God's rule.
But in following that direction, we're not entrusting our future to political promises and favors.
We entrust our future to God's kingdom alone.
The more that the nations try to appease the people through political promises, the more determined we must be to keep the kingdom in focus, the real solution.
That leads us to the third thing that could blur or distort our view of God's kingdom, namely when the nations are saying peace and security.
At first Thessalonians 5-3, God's Word foretells that whenever it is that they, the political powers, are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction is to be instantly on them.
Why will sudden destruction come?
Because human governments are not the solution.
Despite having heard the kingdom message, the nations will not stop trusting in themselves to solve their problems.
At some point, the political powers will arrogantly be saying peace and security in a way that fulfills first Thessalonians 5-3, Jehovah knows how and when that will prove to be.
Yet no matter how much or how loudly the nations will be saying it, they cannot change this fact.
It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step.
Just as humans cannot simply flap their arms and fly, so too humans cannot rule themselves successfully.
So as things move ahead toward the great tribulation, we must not allow ourselves to be fooled no matter how convincing the speeches and boasts from the nations may sound.
And we will not be fooled if we refuse to get caught up in popular protests that seek human solutions to the world's problems, if we refuse to place our trust in political promises.
And if we refuse to be fooled by the nations saying peace and security.
So no matter what Satan's world promotes in the news on social media or elsewhere, we're convinced that God's kingdom alone is the solution.
What can we do to keep that focus?
Keep preaching the good news of the kingdom to people, including the warning about what is coming.
Remember that Jehovah and his son are the ones who are in charge of man's future and never allow Satan and his world to weaken your faith and blur your view of God's kingdom.
And always have this in mind.
It stated in Isaiah chapter 26 and verses 3 and 4,
Where it says of Jehovah,
You will safeguard those who fully lean on you.
You will give them continuous peace because it is in you that they trust.
Trust in Jehovah forever for John Jehovah is the eternal rock.